
= Generic Object Mapper - CouchDB adapter

The CouchDB adapter for the Generic Object Mapper (http://github.com/phifty/gom) provides an easy way store and fetch
object data to/from a CouchDB server. Object properties are mapped as well as object relations.

== Configuration

If the couchdb adapter is chosen in the storage configuration, the following configuration values should be specified.

* <tt>host</tt> - Hostname where the CouchDB server is running on. Default is localhost.
* <tt>port</tt> - Port where the CouchDB server is listening to. Default is 5984.
* <tt>database</tt> - Name of the database that should be used.
* <tt>create_database_if_missing</tt> - Can be true or false and specifies if a missing database should be created or
  not. Default is false.

=== Example

  storage_name:
    adapter: couchdb
    host: another_host
    database: production_db
    create_database_if_missing: true

== Documents

Basically one document is created in the CouchDB database for each stored object. The instance variables from the
object are stored as the document's keys and values. The objects relations to other objects are stored as references
to the other object's document id. So if the following object is saved ...

  class Book

    attr_accessor :pages
    attr_accessor :author

  end

  class Author

    attr_accessor :name

  end

  author = Author.new
  author.name = "Mr. Storyteller"

  book = Book.new
  book.pages = 1253
  book.author = GOM::Object.reference author

  GOM::Storage.store book, :storage_name

... the following documents will occur in the database.

  {
    "_id": "book_1",
    "_rev": "...",
    "model_class": "Book",
    "pages": 1253,
    "author_id": "author_1"
  }

  {
    "_id": "author_1",
    "_rev": "...",
    "model_class": "Author",
    "name": "Mr. Storyteller"
  }

If the author would have been stored before and assigned to an id, it wouldn't be stored again.

To get back the book from the storage, simply call ...

  book = GOM::Storage.fetch "storage_name:book_1"

... and an object of the class <tt>Book</tt> with same instance variable values as it had before, will be returned.
Since lazy loading is supported, the author will just be fetched on the first access. So ...

  author_name = book.author.name

... will invoke another fetch of the author's object.

== Development

This project is still experimental and under development. Any bug report and contribution is welcome!
